As part of a group representing University College Cork, I am travelling everyday this week from my home in Edinburgh to the international climate conference in Glasgow (COP26) on a low emission electric train. Along that train journey, I can see the many climate advertisements that have been recently put up to catch the attention of COP26 attendees. Once I arrive in Glasgow, I follow the crowd to one of Glasgow’s 22 new electric buses, which drops us off close to our venue. On arrival we pass by the anxious yet determined climate protesters delivering their messages as we join the queue to get in.  
Its certainly true that the less you know the better, and climate change is no different. Simply put, our world is rapidly heating on a planetary scale but slow enough for us not to panic, reminding me of the proverbial frog in a slowly boiling pot of water. The frog, like us is not is not fully aware of the likelihood of catastrophe as the change in temperature is too gradually to provoke significant action. However, despite the gradual increase in global temperature, it is now getting too hot to ignore with global average temperatures 1.2°C hotter than pre-industrial levels. The COP26 negotiations aim to limit global average temperatures to 1.5°C. However, we continue to emit and as the UN Emission Gap report is titled “The Heat Is On”  - so maybe now the proverbial frogs will act? 
This is my 3rd day at my first COP, as I walk through the pavilions, I come across experts giving their thoughts, politicians outlining their goals, and innovators explaining their ideas. Most of the pavilions at COP26 are nation specific and all the big emitters are here! Australia shows educational videos about carbon capture and storage, Russia’s pro-nuclear stance is clear to see, United Arab Emirates explain they have a rocket that can take go to Mars, USA have come back with a large pavilion and speeches about “building back better”, Qatar are show casing their seemingly “net-zero” football stadiums for World Cup 2022, while the EU has an unmissable and always full pavilion. I feel there is a lot of greenwashing going on here, but also there are also some very intelligent people and those who are genuinely trying to limit global warming.
There are also many side events, in one side event, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme, Inger Anderson, said at that the additional commitment so far at COP26 is “like an elephant giving birth to a mouse”, elaborating on her frustrations further she mentioned the lack of leadership. The same event mentioned that post-COVID social inequalities are widening, and globally we need 7 times higher ambition up to 2030 to get us back on track to 1.5C. At another side event about governance Mary Robinson said, “If you have the privilege, especially elected, your job is to serve and to listen”, the political leaders were getting the stick both inside and outside COP26! The most heartfelt moment was listening Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum, a Fijian minister talk about the difficulty of having already moved 6 villages to higher ground while another 40 are urgently required to move, this is happening as Fiji struggles to receiving funding, after paying to receive from the climate adaption fund, this he said is due to the “bloated bureaucratic systems”. 
In Ireland we are one of the highest emitters per capita and as Minister Simon Convey said here “that is the way we need to see it". Ireland has set a very ambitious climate target up to 2030, and achieving this goal is critical beyond our borders. Here at the 26th COP there is a mix of frustration and urgency. The outcomes of COP26 are still hanging in the balance, as we enter the last two days. 
#UCCatCOP26 
Jason Mc Guire

